---
layout: post
title: "python"
date: 2018-05-28
tags: python
---
* Do not remove this line (it will not be displayed)
{:toc}

# How to tar with skip some files

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def exclude_function(filename):
    if filename.endswith('.root'):
            return True
    else:
            return False

def make_tarfile(output_filename, source_dir):
    with tarfile.open(output_filename, "w:gz") as tar:
            tar.add(source_dir, arcname=os.path.basename(source_dir), exclude=exclude_function)

make_tarfile("test.tgz", source/dir/path )
{% endhighlight %}

# For loop with floats

```python
import numpy as np
for i in np.arange(Rangelow, Rangehigh, Delta):
    print i
```

# what getattr does?

> It checks if a class has a given attribute or not? If it has given attribute then returns the value of that attribute. Else, it will give you error. Also, if you add the third argument, then, if that object is not present then it assigns that default value and return it.

```python
class A:
    def __init__(self,x,y):
        self.x=x
        self.y=y
    def sum(self):
        return self.x+self.y
        #return x+y

obj1=A(12,10)

print (getattr(obj1,'x'))   # check if the attribute x is defined in obj1 or not. IF its defined then returns its value.
print (getattr(obj1,'y'))
print (getattr(obj1,'sum'))

print (getattr(obj1,'z',1000))
```

#Python Tutorial

## Some Reserved Key Words

1. split
2. sorted
3. help
4. append
5. range()

## Difference between list and tuple

## Concept of Dictionary

## Split a Word
**METHOD: split()**
This returns a list of all the words in the string, using str as the seperator (split on all whitespaces if left unspecified), optionally limiting the number of splits to num.

**SYNTAX: str.split(str=” “, num=string.count(str))**
str => this is any delimiter, by default its space
num => number of lines to be made

    Reference: 
    1. [Link1](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/string_split.htm) 

## Remove Specific Character From String

    import re 
    line = re.sub('[!@#$]', '', line)

The characters enclosed in brackets constitute a character class. Any characters in **line** which are in that class are replaced with the second parameter to sub: an empty string.

    Reference: 
    1. [Link1](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3939361/remove-specific-characters-from-a-string-in-python) 
    2. [Link2](https://docs.python.org/2/library/re.html#re.sub) 




