---
layout: post
title: "Vi-Editor"
date: 2018-05-25
categories: bash vi-editor
comments: true
---
* Do not remove this line (it will not be displayed)
{:toc}

# Auto-complete the words

```
CTRL + p
```

# Substitute with ascending numbers:

* Suppose we want to replace each occurrence of "`abc`" with "`xyz_N`" where N is an ascending number (xyz_1, xyz_2, xyz_3, and so on). One approach uses the following command:

    ```bash
    :let i=1 | g/abc/s//\='xyz_'.i/ | let i=i+1
    ```

* This will replace only first occurrence of each line. There is also command that can replace all, for it look at link below.

Ref: [http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Making_a_list_of_numbers](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Making_a_list_of_numbers)

# Comment all lines contaning a pattern:

```bash
        :%s/.*pattern/#&
```

This command adds `#` to the begining of each line contaning `pattern`.

Ref: [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19529278/how-do-i-comment-all-lines-that-match-a-search-pattern-in-vim](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19529278/how-do-i-comment-all-lines-that-match-a-search-pattern-in-vim)

# To insert a file immediately after the line containing the cursor:

   ```bash 
   :r examples.txt
   ```

This inserts the contents of the file examples.txt immediately after the current line.

# To insert the contents of another file after a specific line in the current file:

```bash
    23:r toc.txt
```

This inserts the contents of the file "toc.txt" after line 23 of the current file. Line 24 is empty; the contents of the inserted file begin at line 25.
3. kk

[vi cheatsheet link]({{ site.url }}/assets/vi-CheatSheet.pdf)

# search a keyword

press Esc key to go to command mode, then type

```bash
    /keyword
```

then press enter. And use key "n" to search next and use "shift/Caps Lock button" to search in reverse direction
    
# Search and replace:
go in command mode by pressing Esc key, then type

```bash
    :%s/wordToBeReplaced/NewWord/gc
```
then press enter. Then if you want to change the highlighted word then use "y" else use "n" to go to next word.

## Several different options for search and replace

1. `:s/foo/bar/g`

    Change each 'foo' to 'bar' in the current line.

2. `:%s/foo/bar/g`

    Change each 'foo' to 'bar' in all the lines.

3. `:5,12s/foo/bar/g`

    Change each 'foo' to 'bar' for all lines from line 5 to line 12 (inclusive).

4. `:'a,'bs/foo/bar/g`

    Change each 'foo' to 'bar' for all lines from mark a to mark b inclusive.

5. `:'<,'>s/foo/bar/g`

    When compiled with, +visual change each 'foo' to 'bar' for all lines within a visual selection. Vim automatically appends the visual selection range ('<,'>) for any ex command when you select an area and enter

6. `:.,$s/foo/bar/g`

    Change each 'foo' to 'bar' for all lines from the current line (.) to the last line ($) inclusive.

7. `:.,+2s/foo/bar/g`

    Change each 'foo' to 'bar' for the current line (.) and the two next lines (+2).

8. `:g/^baz/s/foo/bar/g`

    Change each 'foo' to 'bar' in each line starting with 'baz'.

Ref: http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Search_and_replace

# Inserting text in multiple lines (Visual Selection)

- Press Ctrl+V

- Extend the visual block using jj or arrow

- Press $ for the end of line press ^ for beginning of line.

- Press A or Shift+i for insert mode

- Then type anything that you want

- Then press ESC.

Ref: http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Inserting_text_in_multiple_lines

# Search and Replace using Visual Selection

- Press Ctrl+V

- Extend the visual block using jj or arrow

- when text is selected visually, press : to enter the command (when you press : then :'<,'> will automatically come)

- example of the command:

```bash
s/red/green/g
```
Ref: http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Search_and_replace_in_a_visual_selection

# Mark Option in Vi:

**mx**  => mark the current line with letter x (where x is from a to z or A to Z)

**'x**  => Find line marked with letter x

Usual commands like d, y, etc also work with mark option.

For detail look at ref: http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Using_marks

# Delete some characters from the end of many lines:

To delete 6 characters from the end of all line, use command:

```bash
       :%s/.\{6}$//
```

# To list the line numbers from present line to end
```bash
       :%s/.\{1}$/\=printf('%-4d', line('.'))
```

# How to use Recorder?
An example to replace string **OldString** with **NewString** contained in multiple *.cpp files:

- vim *.cpp

- qx            # start recording to register x

- :%s/OldString/NewString/g

- :wnext

- q             # stop recording

- @x            # playback to see if it works correctly

- 999@x         # repeat 999 times to complete the job

Ref: http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Recording_keys_for_repeated_jobs
-> tutorial on record: http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2009/01/vi-and-vim-macro-tutorial-how-to-record-and-play/

# How to edit record:

Assume that we are using register `a` for recording a task.

You can use "ap which will insert the text in the buffer (where a is your register):

```bash
        iThis is A<1b>
```

Now I can just change the line to maybe:

    ```bash
        iThis is an edited macro<1b>
    ```

Then I do `^v$"ay` to yank (copy) this line to the a register:

```
        ^ for start of line
        v for visual mode
        $ for end of line
        "ay yank the selection to register a
```

Reference: [https://vi.stackexchange.com/questions/759/how-can-i-view-and-edit-my-recording-i-e-recorded-macro](https://vi.stackexchange.com/questions/759/how-can-i-view-and-edit-my-recording-i-e-recorded-macro)

# Efficient way to remove multiple spaces between two words

**ciw** and then escape back to normal mode.

# duplicate lines matching a pattern, and modify the second line, all in one command

**TASK**: Search all lines containing "atributeA", like this one

```
this.attributeA=attributeA //basic constructor
```

should turn into

```
this.attributeA=attributeA //basic constructor
this.attributeB=attributeB //basic constructor
```

**Soulution**

```
:g/attributeA/ copy . | s//attributeB/g
```

where

```
:g/pattern/ command1 | command2 | ...
```

executes commands on each line matching `pattern` (see `:help :global`).

Here,

```
copy .
```

copies the current line (see `:help :copy`) matched by `:g` to after the address `.`` (meaning the current line), and

```
s/pattern/replacement/g
```

then performs a substitution on the current line (see `:help :substitute`), i.e. the copy you just made. The `g` flag at the end causes the substitution to be performed for all matching patterns in the line, not just the first. Also note that I left the search pattern empty: Vim will remember the last search pattern used in the previous `:global` or `:substitute` command as a convenience.

Reference: [https://stackoverflow.com/a/29369960/2302094](https://stackoverflow.com/a/29369960/2302094)

# Some other commands


* Insert output of command in vi-editor: `:.! date`

* Increment a number : `Ctrl-a`

* Decrement a number : `Ctrl-x `

* Cursor movement: Put cursor to first line of screen : `H`

* Cursor movement: Put cursor to last line of screen : `L`

* Cursor movement: Put cursor to middle line of screen : `M`

* Delete command: `di( delete all character within parentheses`

* Delete command: `di" delete all character within quotes`

* Toggle case of letter: `~`

* Toggle case of current line: `g~~`

* Toggle case of all character from the cursor position to the end of line: `
g~$`

* Change case of current line to Upper case: `gUU`

* Change case of current line to lower case: `guu`

* Go to end of word: `w`
    - Option `e` moves us to last letter of the word

* vim options:

        -i  : ignore case

* Run a command to place output in current line

        :r !command 

* Delete all empty lines ( Ref ) 
        
        :g/^$/d

* Delete all empty lines or remove all lines containing only white spaces ( Ref )

        :g/^\s*$/d


Run Commands From Vi Editor:      :! ls   
Insert output of the command in vi-editor: :.! date
Run a command to place output in current line :r !command
Increment a number : Ctrl-a
Decrement a number : Ctrl-x 
Cursor movement: Put cursor to the first line of screen : H
Cursor movement: Put cursor to the last line of screen : L
Cursor movement: Put cursor to middle line of screen : M
Delete command: di(  delete all character within parentheses
Delete command: di"  delete all character within quotes
Toggle case of the letter: ~
Toggle case of current line: g~~
Toggle case of all character from the cursor position to the end of line: g~$
Change case of the current line to Uppercase: gUU
Change case of the current line to lowercase: guu
vim options:

-i  : ignore case
Delete all empty lines ( Ref ) :g/^$/d
Delete all empty lines or remove all lines containing only white spaces ( Ref )
:g/^\s*$/d
Substitute with ascending numbers:
=> Suppose we want to replace each occurrence of "abc" with "xyz_N" where N is an ascending number (xyz_1, xyz_2, xyz_3, and so on). One approach uses the following command:

:let i=1 | g/abc/s//\='xyz_'.i/ | let i=i+1

This will replace the only first occurrence of each line. There is also command that can replace all, for it looks at the link below.
Ref: http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Making_a_list_of_numbers

Sort lines = >   :%sort 

